# Introduction
In this folder you will find documentation and assembly diagrams for an open-source hardware assembly designed to record ultraviolet (UV) light exposure at user-defined intervals over various lengths of time. Logging intervals can range from seconds to hours, depending on resistor settings on the included power timer. Tests of logging duration thus far support continuous usage for at least two years (24 months) at a one-minute logging interval on a 1000mAh lithium battery is possible. Analog readings (counts) from the attached UV sensor are converted to mV via an equation in the code; because the device runs off battery power in a field setting, calculations are made relative to a VCC reference analog pin reading. Data are logged to a microSD card in a format determined by the user (via use or modification of the supplied software code), and can then easily be brought into any spreadsheet or statistical software for analysis. 

The logger can be activated by plugging the lithium battery into the JST connector port on the power timer (see Fritzing_visual.tiff); once plugged in, the system will run indefinitely, logging at timer-set intervals, until the battery drains or the user unplugs the battery from that connector. In brief, at a timer interval, the timer allows power from the battery to reach the microcontroller and the logger code is run, taking a reading from the UV sensor and a time of reading from a real-time clock module, and saving those data to a CSV file on the microSD card. After the file is written, the program sends a signal to a pin on the power timer, signalling it to cut power to the microcontroller until the next interval arrives. See attached code for details. 

# Obtaining UV data from the Field UV Data Logger
Conversion of mV values to [UV Index][uv-index] requires the user to perform an initial calibration test whereby values obtained by the GUVA-S12SD sensor are compared to values obtained by an NIST Traceable standard in the field; I recommend the [Solarmeter 6.5r][solarmeter-65r] handheld UVI sensor because it senses UV exposure in the range relevant for vitamin D synthesis in reptiles. This sensor has also been used in scientific studies to explore patterns of reptile exposure in the wild: data from those studies were used to establish the Ferguson Zones well-known in the pet trade and zoological world. Once a sufficient amount of readings (I recommend at least 20 readings) are taken across a representative range of UV Index values (e.g., 0 - 12 for studies done in the US), the user should run a linear regression in the form of Y ~ X, where Y = Solarmeter UV Index reading and X = Field UV Data Logger UV sensor reading (in mV), with the intercept set to zero (zero UVI should result in zero mV). The equation of this line can then be used to convert future mV readings by the logger in that environment to UV Index values. I recommend calibrating the sensor to each new environment until we have a better understanding about the extent of geographic variation in sensor readings. 

# Importance
Until this logger, <b>scientists have had no means to record long-term UV exposures for lizards (or other wildlife) </b>, yet these data are crucial for determining whether the animals of interest are actively, behaviorally regulating their UV exposure in the wild. My lab has tested these loggers since my initial design in various field settings and elevations in Arizona USA, revealing for the first time that lizards can and do actively regulate their UV exposure. Our findings also suport that habitat selection and use may be more strongly driven by UV costs/constraints than temperature! These findings alone have big implications for our understanding of everything from daily activity to evolutionary adaptation in these charismatic organisms. My lab will continue to investigate UV regulation in a diverse array of reptiles, and now you can too! 

Details on logger housing components (3D printed and otherwise), as well as sample calibrations and output, will be shared publicly as well once the accompanying manuscript is published; a PDF of the manuscript and other supplementary materials will be linked as well. This repository is an initial effort to ensure that others can rely on my logger assemblies and give credit to my work in advance of that publication. 

Stay tuned for more from my research lab as the story continues to unfold! 

# License Information
License and attribution information are provided in the main UV project [Readme.md][readme-main] file for my research lab, currently located in LattanzioLab/uv. Please review this information, and feel free to reach out with any questions/concerns. 

[readme-main]: https://github.com/LattanzioLab/uv/blob/main/README.md
[solarmeter-65r]: https://www.solarmeter.com/product/model65r/
[uv-index]: https://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/stratosphere/uv_index/uv_information.shtml
