# Introduction
Code and documentation for a hardware assembly to record Ultraviolet (UV) light preferences for a small bodied animal (e.g., a lizard) in a laboratory preference arena (sensu Conley and Lattanzio 2022, Functional Ecology). The program is currently set to record UV exposures (in raw counts, volts, and if desired, UV Index units) at 30 second intervals for a one-hour (60 min) period, which is standard in my field. However, all parameters are user-defined and can be adjusted to meet your experimental needs. Calculations of UV Index require calibration of the sensor (Adafruit GUVA-S12SD breakout board) to UV Index values produced by a standard (e.g., Solarmeter 6.5r handheld sensor) under the lighting used in the arena (different UV bulbs produce different UV output spectra!) prior to use. The equation of the best-fit line set to zero intercept between the readings of the sensor and the standard can be used to convert future sensor readigns to UV Index. This sensor typically calibrates well to Solarmeter readings under various light sources (publication forthcoming; R^2 is typically >0.9). 

# License and Attribution
Code in this folder falls under the MIT license, and all other materials, including the UVI Preference Logger assembly and related documentation, are under a CC-BY-NC-SA license. Complete license and attribution details are provided in the main UV project Readme.md file for my research lab, currently located in LattanzioLab/uv. Please review this information, and feel free to reach out with any questions/concerns. 
